---

title: How Many Spokes Should I Ride?
date: 2017-08-23 21:16 UTC
category: wheelsets
tags: 
  - spokes
  - wheels
  - wheel_sets
image: /images/bike5.png
---


<p class="layout-main__paragraph">
To understand the importance of spokes a little scientific explination is useful.
<br>
<br> 
When a rider pedals a bike they are creating both linear-friction force and centripetal force which puts stress on the spokes. Simplified, 
When you the pedal bike there are two different forces being generated. The linear-friction force propels the bike forward - in the direction 
you are traveling - and centripetal force rotates the wheel along the axle.
<!-- INSERT GRAPHIC -->
</p>

<h1 class="layout-main__h1">
32 Spokes
</h1>
<p class="layout-main__paragraph">
One of the main advantages of a 32 spoke wheel is that it will be lighter. 32 spoke wheels will commonly be found on cruisers, mountain
bikes, and road bikes. However, it should be noted that 32 spoke wheels are becoming less common.
</p>

<h1 class="layout-main__h1">
36 Spokes
</h1>
<p class="layout-main__paragraph">
For heavy riders a 36 spoke wheel offer more stuctural support to the wheel and is preferred at its availability. A higher number of 
spokes reduces the overall tension forced upon each spoke. Additonally, 36 spoke wheels have become the most commonly used and, as such, 
is more widely and readily available.
</p>

<h1 class="layout-main__h1">
40/48 Spokes
</h1>
<p class="layout-main__paragraph">
If you are really concerned with the durability of your wheel you can check out tandem wheels. They are made to hold two riders so they
can hold a heavy rider with ease and the rim is a bit wider. These wheels are extremely durable and the spokes are typically made of a 
thicker gauge metal so they offer tremendous support but they will be considerably more expensive and with a more limited availability 
than a 32 or a 36 spoke wheel.
</p>
