---

title: Seats
date: 2017-09-09 10:57 UTC
category: accessories
tags: 
  - accessories
  - helmets
  - pedals
  - seats
  
image: /images/bike5.png
---


<p class="layout-main__paragraph"> 
Let's say you just got yourself a nice, new, shiny bike and you take it for its maiden voyage ride. If you don't ride very often or if the bike has a bad seat the first ride could also be the last. Despite however much "extra padding" you may have, when you first start riding your butt WILL get sore. It happens to nearly everyone. A good, wide, comfortable bike seat can make all the difference. Perhaps the seat is comfortable though and you fit on it well, but you don't want to buy a new seat just because you haven't grown accustomed to sitting on a bicycle seat? Well instead of buy a whole new seat, consider buying a removable seat cushion, typically called a saddle cushion. It will offer you extra padding and support and it simply slips right over your existing seat.
<br>
<br>
If you aren't going to get a custom seat made then you have two padding material options for your seat or "saddle": gel and foam. Gel cusioning is soft and pliable, and while comfortable, it becomes more compacted quicker than foam so it may not be the best option if you intend on riding for long distances. Foam cushioning is available as either a softer memory foam or firmer, higher density foam. Obviously, memory foam will have more give and will mold to your form. Firmer foam is preferred for longer distance and heavy riders has it does not compact as rapidly as either memory foam or gel so it will provide more solid support for a longer period of time.
<br>
<br>
New seats, regardless of material, will probably be a little stiff until you break them in. For a little extra comfort you might want to also get a seat cushion. Most of these will be made of gel, gel foam, or possibly some sort of basic memory foam and will slip right over your existing seat. A good seat cushion will be made of a weatherproof spandex material and many will have center grooves to help your sitzbones from feeling achy and bruised.  If you check out our <a href="/blog/shop/resource-shop/">bike shop</a> we have a small selection of seat cushions that will help to keep you riding, pain free. Another option would be what is called a "saddle pad". This is piece of padded material that is drapped over the seat and come in a variety of materials, from leather and chamois to synthetic materials. The main issue riders have with these is that they often tend to move around during the ride and cause the discomfort you are trying to alleviate. 
</p>